cv-study.md, before:

# Muhammad Ammar Khan

![Profile Banner](https://i.imgur.com/WiI2OZb.png)

## Contact Information
- **Location:** District Jhelum, Punjab, Pakistan
- **Phone:** +92 314 5401405
- **Date of Birth:** April 1, 2001
- **Nationality:** Pakistani

<a href="https://github.com/TheMR-777">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%40TheMR--777-%23181717?logo=github&style=flat">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%40TheMR--777-%23E6E6FA?logo=github&style=flat">
    <img alt="GitHub Badge" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%40TheMR--777-%23181717?logo=github&style=flat">
  </picture>
</a>

<a href="https://wa.me/923145401405">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-%2B92%20314%205401405-%23075E54?logo=whatsapp&style=flat">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-%2B92%20314%205401405-%23DFFFD6?logo=whatsapp&style=flat">
    <img alt="WhatsApp Badge" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-%2B92%20314%205401405-%23075E54?logo=whatsapp&style=flat">
  </picture>
</a>

<a href="mailto:m.shahzad.ms72@gmail.com">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-m.shahzad.ms72%40gmail.com-%23EA4335?logo=gmail&style=flat">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-m.shahzad.ms72%40gmail.com-%23FFE4E1?logo=gmail&style=flat">
    <img alt="Email Badge" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-m.shahzad.ms72%40gmail.com-%23EA4335?logo=gmail&style=flat">
  </picture>
</a>

## Personal Statement

As a lifelong computer enthusiast with a deep passion for **Cyber Security**, **Ethical Hacking**, **Artificial Intelligence**, and **Game Development**, I have mastered my skills in software development and computer science from an early age. My expertise in modern C++, cryptography, AI, and cutting-edge software engineering practices allows me to solve complex challenges efficiently. I am dedicated to leveraging advanced techniques and tools to drive innovation and excellence across various domains of computer science, with a keen focus on security, AI, and creative problem-solving.

## Career Objective

Aspiring to engage in dynamic roles within the expansive field of computer science, leveraging my expertise in modern C++, software development, cryptography, AI-assisted problem-solving, and cyber security to contribute to innovative technological advancements. I aim to pursue a career that integrates my diverse interests in **Artificial Intelligence**, **Cyber Security**, **Ethical Hacking**, **Gaming**, and more, driving innovation and excellence in every project.

## Education

### BS (Honors) in Computer Science
**University of the Punjab, Jhelum Campus**  
**Year:** 2023  
- **CGPA:** 3.73/4.0
- **Key Coursework:** 
  - **Computing & Software:** Data Structures & Algorithms, Analysis of Algorithms, Software Engineering, Object-Oriented Analysis & Design, Software Quality Assurance
  - **Systems & Architecture:** Operating Systems, Computer Architecture, System Programming
  - **Security & Networking:** Network Security, Computer Networks
  - **Mathematics & AI:** Artificial Intelligence, Probability & Statistics, Linear Algebra
  - **Database Systems:** Database Management Systems (DBMS) with Lab
  - **Theory:** Theory of Automata & Formal Languages, Compiler Construction
- **Final Year Project:**
  - **Title:** Costaz
  - **Description:** A Flutter application assisting teachers in managing student records, attendance, marks, and assignments, securely storing data in Google Drive via Google Sheets.
  - **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Google Sheets API, Google Drive API, Google Authentication API

### Intermediate in Pre-Engineering
*F.G. Intermediate College, Jhelum Cantt*  
- **Year:** 2019  
- **Marks:** 743/1100  
- **Percentage:** 67.5%

### Matriculation  
*F.G. Public School, Jhelum Cantt*  
- **Year:** 2017  
- **Marks:** 845/1050  
- **Percentage:** 80.5%

## Work Experience

### ACE Money Transfer
**Position:** .NET Developer  
**Duration:** June 2023 - Present  
- **Responsibilities:**
  - Implementing cryptography and security measures in systems using  and C++
  - Integration and maintenance of payout partner APIs ensuring secure transactions
  - Development and maintenance of a featureful Employee Monitoring Suite
  - Modernizing and optimizing legacy systems using .NET 8 and AvaloniaUI
- **Achievements:**
  - Implemented a two-layer encryption system (RSA & AES with HMAC) for the Punjab National Bank API
  - Crafted an Employee Monitoring Suite enhancing productivity (details in the Projects section)
  - Developed a real-time dashboard and backoffice in .NET 9 with Blazor for the monitoring
  - Modernized existing monitoring tools using .NET 9 and AvaloniaUI
  - Introduced GraphQL APIs for streamlined development processes
  - JWT Management and Configuration for the Payout Partners in the APIs

### TeqHolic
**Position:** Intern  
**Duration:** 3 Months  
- **Responsibilities:**
  - Developed frontend applications using Flutter and Firebase
  - Built **Chirp**, a social media application similar to Twitter
  - Developed **Sara Kuch**, an e-commerce application using Shopify REST API

## Technical Skills

With a passion for computers since age 3, I've developed a comprehensive skill set across various domains of computer science:

| Category                   | Skills |
| -------------------------- | --- |
| Programming                | C++ (expert),  (advanced), Dart (proficient), Python (intermediate) |
| C++ Expertise              | Modern C++ (till C++23/26), SFINAE, STL, Multithreading, File I/O, Smart Pointers, Lambdas |
| Cryptography and Security  | DES, AES, RSA, Key Generation (PBKDF2, Scrypt, Argon2), HMAC, EC Cryptography, OpenSSL API, `mr_crypt` library, Ethical Hacking, Penetration Testing, Mobile Security Assessments |
| Artificial Intelligence    | Machine Learning Algorithms, Neural Networks, AI-assisted Development, Prompt Engineering |
| Game Development           | Knowledge of Game Design Principles, Experience with Game Engines |
| Frameworks                 | .NET, AvaloniaUI, Blazor, Xamarin, Qt C++, Flutter, Firebase, Google APIs |
| Paradigms                  | - Data-Oriented Design <br> - Object-Oriented Programming <br> - Functional Programming (Monads) <br> - Template-Meta Programming |
| APIs                       | REST, SOAP, GraphQL |
| Database Management        | SQLite, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL |
| Tools & Platforms          | Visual Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, VS Code, Git & GitHub, Google Colab & Jupyter Notebook, Jira, Linux, Windows, macOS |
| AI & Problem-Solving       | Advanced Google Search Operators, AI-assisted development (harnessing GPTs, Claude, LLaMA, Command R+, GitHub Copilot, Microsoft Copilot, Mixtral AI, Google's Gemini), AI Prompt Engineering |

## Projects

### Employee Monitoring Suite
- **Role:** Lead Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** C# 13, .NET 9, AvaloniaUI, Blazor, GraphQL API, Micro-ORM, ApexCharts, Microsoft SQL Server
- **Description:** Developed an Intune and DeskTime-like suite for monitoring employee activities, including:
  - Real-time monitoring of active windows and applications
  - Screenshot capturing at regular intervals
  - Tracking of active/idle time
  - Detection and logging of all kinds of breaks
  - Integration with a GraphQL API for data retrieval
  - Real-time dashboard in Blazor for productivity analysis
  - Admin panels to manage client-app configurations and generate reports
- **Impact:** Improved overall team productivity by 200% and reduced unauthorized breaks by 35%

### mr_crypt
- **Role:** Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** C++23, OpenSSL 3.0+ API  
- **Description:** A modern, easy-to-use C++ library for cryptography with range-like syntax, supporting various hashing algorithms, symmetric & asymmetric encryption, and key generation using OpenSSL's C API.
- **Impact:** Simplified cryptographic implementations for developers, reducing development time by ~10 times, and improving code readability while ensuring high security standards.

### Mobile Security Research and Publications
- **Role:** Cyber Security Researcher and Author  
- **Technologies Used:** Android OS, Security Analysis Tools, Custom Scripts  
- **Description:** Conducted extensive research on Android mobile security, focusing on ethical hacking techniques to identify and mitigate vulnerabilities. Developed innovative methods for mobile-to-mobile security assessments due to limited access to traditional computing resources. Successfully demonstrated security evaluations of Android devices in controlled environments.
- **Publications:** Authored several educational articles on **Null Byte** to share and preserve findings, contributing to the broader cyber security community (details in the Publications section).

### Costaz (Final Year Project)
- **Role:** Lead Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Google Sheets API, Google Drive API, Google Authentication API  
- **Description:** A Flutter application designed to assist teachers in managing student records and assignments with data stored securely on Google Drive.
- **Impact:** Streamlined the student record-keeping process, reducing manual data entry by 50% and improving data accuracy by 30%.

### Chirp
- **Role:** Frontend Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Firebase  
- **Description:** A simple social media application built to function similarly to X (Twitter), enabling real-time communication and content sharing.

### Sara Kuch
- **Role:** Frontend Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Firebase, REST API of Shopify  
- **Description:** An e-commerce application integrating Shopify's REST API for seamless product fetching and display.

## Research & Publications

### Identification of Paddy Disease Along Its Processing Time  
*Khan, S.N., Khan, S.U., Khan, M.A., Ansar, M.U., Shakeel, G.S., Ahmed, M., Zahid, N., & Ahmad, F.*  
*Quantum Journal of Social Sciences and Humanities*, 4(3), 72-80  
[Link to the Paper](https://doi.org/10.55197/qjssh.v4i3.251)  

- Developed an innovative image processing system for diagnosing paddy diseases.
- Achieved high accuracy rates using advanced image processing techniques.

### Paddy Leaf Disease Symptoms Detection Through Artificial Neural Network  
*Khan, S.N., Khan, S.U., Ahmed, S., Khan, M.A., Khan, J.*  
*Quantum Journal of Engineering, Science and Technology*, 4(4), 1-10  
[Link to the Paper](https://qjoest.com/index.php/qjoest/article/view/123/75)  

- Co-authored a research paper on the detection of paddy leaf disease symptoms using artificial neural networks.
- Contributed to the development of a system that enhances the accuracy of disease detection in agricultural applications.
- Participated in experiments that demonstrated improved performance in symptom detection using ANN with high accuracy.

### Cyber Security Articles on Null Byte
*Authored under the pseudonym [H4ck3R_777](https://creator.wonderhowto.com/h4ck3r_777/)*

- **Embed Metasploit Payload in Original APK Files:**
  - *Part 1:* Using TheFatRat
  - *Part 2:* Using Linder
- **Android Device Security Assessments with Termux on Android:**
  - *Part 1:* Over the Internet [Ultimate Guide]
  - *Part 2:* Over WLAN Hotspot [Ultimate Guide]
- **Installing Metasploit Framework on Android Devices:**
  - *Part 1:* In Termux
  - *Part 2:* In GNURoot-Debian
  - *Part 3:* In UserLAnd
- **Enhancing Password Cracking Efficiency:**
  - Use Multiple Threads/CPUs While Cracking Passwords with John the Ripper (Free Version)
- **File System Operations in Kali Linux:**
  - See How to Write to an NTFS Partition of HDD/SSD in Kali Linux (The Ultimate Guide)
- **APK File Signing Techniques:**
  - Sign the APK File with Embedded Payload (The Ultimate Guide)

**Highlights:**
- The article "*Android Device Security Assessments with Termux on Android: Part 1 - Over the Internet [Ultimate Guide]*" gained significant popularity from 2018 to 2020, becoming the second most-read article on Null Byte.
- Due to its widespread attention, the content was refined to focus on technical details aimed at professionals in the field, ensuring responsible dissemination of information.
- The articles were crafted to educate readers on mobile security, ethical hacking practices, and the importance of securing Android devices against potential vulnerabilities.

## Certifications & Training

- **Modern C++ Mastery with Respect to Game Development** by TheCherno (YouTube)
- **Advanced Cryptography Course** by Christof Paar (YouTube)
- **Flutter Development Course** by The App Brewery (Udemy)
- **.NET Basic to Advanced** by CodeWithMosh (Udemy) and Tim Corey (YouTube)
- **IELTS Academic** with British Council (details in Languages section)

## Extracurricular Activities & University Engagement

- **Founder and Leader of College Cyber Security Club:** Established and led a community of cyber security and ethical hacking enthusiasts for 3 years during college. Organized workshops, collaborative research projects, and knowledge-sharing sessions on cryptography, ethical hacking, and security best practices. The community fostered a culture of learning and innovation in the field of cyber security.

- **Class Representative & Student Mentor:** Acted as the unofficial Class Representative, fostering communication between students and faculty. Provided academic support to peers and conducted programming classes.

- **Open Source Contributions:** Actively contributing to my cryptography library, `mr_crypt`, on GitHub. Furthermore, contributed to various open-source projects like `AvaloniaUI`, `Flutter`, and `fluent_ui`, enhancing my skills and knowledge in software development.

- **AI Prompt Engineering:** Developed specialized prompts for GPT models, optimizing their performance for specific fields and improving output accuracy. Skilled in enhancing the capabilities of various AI models through advanced prompt engineering techniques.

## Languages

- **Urdu:** Native  
- **English:** 7.5 Bands in IELTS Academic

| IELTS Module | Bands |
| --- | --- |
| Listening | 8.5 |
| Reading | 7.0 |
| Writing | 7.0 |
| Speaking | 7.0 |
| **Overall** | **7.5** |

## Interests

I have a diverse range of interests that complement my professional skills and contribute to my personal growth and development.

| Interest                        | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Cyber Security & Ethical Hacking | Passionate about exploring security vulnerabilities, developing ethical hacking techniques, and securing systems against potential threats        |
| Artificial Intelligence         | Exploring the latest trends in AI and machine learning, including practical applications of AI-assisted development and prompt engineering         |
| Cryptography                    | Keen interest in developing secure and efficient cryptographic solutions                                                                           |
| Programming                     | Enthusiastic about exploring new programming paradigms and technologies                                                                            |
| Gaming                          | Avid gamer with a particular interest in game development and design                                                                               |
| Data Structures & Algorithms    | Enjoy solving complex problems and optimizing algorithms                                                                                           |
| Optimization                    | Passionate about optimizing code and algorithms for performance and efficiency                                                                     |
| Open Source                     | Active contributor to open-source projects, especially in C++ and cryptography                                                                     |
| Advanced Information Retrieval  | Proficient in using advanced search techniques to find and synthesize information from diverse sources                                             |
| AI-Assisted Problem Solving     | Skilled in leveraging various AI models and tools to tackle complex challenges efficiently                                                         |
| Symmetrical Lifestyle           | Believe in maintaining a healthy work-life balance to ensure productivity and well-being                                                           |

## References

Available upon request.

---

**Muhammad Ammar Khan**  
A dedicated and skilled computer science professional committed to excellence and innovation.

Commit message:

cv-work.md — updates regarding saas and architecture

cv-study.md, after:

# Muhammad Ammar Khan

![Profile Banner](https://i.imgur.com/WiI2OZb.png)

## Contact Information
- **Location:** District Jhelum, Punjab, Pakistan
- **Phone:** +92 314 5401405
- **Date of Birth:** April 1, 2001
- **Nationality:** Pakistani

<a href="https://github.com/TheMR-777">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%40TheMR--777-%23181717?logo=github&style=flat">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%40TheMR--777-%23E6E6FA?logo=github&style=flat">
    <img alt="GitHub Badge" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-%40TheMR--777-%23181717?logo=github&style=flat">
  </picture>
</a>

<a href="https://wa.me/923145401405">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-%2B92%20314%205401405-%23075E54?logo=whatsapp&style=flat">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-%2B92%20314%205401405-%23DFFFD6?logo=whatsapp&style=flat">
    <img alt="WhatsApp Badge" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-%2B92%20314%205401405-%23075E54?logo=whatsapp&style=flat">
  </picture>
</a>

<a href="mailto:m.shahzad.ms72@gmail.com">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-m.shahzad.ms72%40gmail.com-%23EA4335?logo=gmail&style=flat">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-m.shahzad.ms72%40gmail.com-%23FFE4E1?logo=gmail&style=flat">
    <img alt="Email Badge" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-m.shahzad.ms72%40gmail.com-%23EA4335?logo=gmail&style=flat">
  </picture>
</a>

## Personal Statement

As a lifelong computer enthusiast with a deep passion for **Cyber Security**, **Ethical Hacking**, **Artificial Intelligence**, and **Game Development**, I have mastered my skills in software development and computer science from an early age. My expertise in modern C++, cryptography, AI, and cutting-edge software engineering practices allows me to solve complex challenges efficiently. I am dedicated to leveraging advanced techniques and tools to drive innovation and excellence across various domains of computer science, with a keen focus on security, AI, and creative problem-solving.

## Career Objective

Aspiring to engage in dynamic roles within the expansive field of computer science, leveraging my expertise in modern C++, software development, cryptography, AI-assisted problem-solving, and cyber security to contribute to innovative technological advancements. I aim to pursue a career that integrates my diverse interests in **Artificial Intelligence**, **Cyber Security**, **Ethical Hacking**, **Gaming**, and more, driving innovation and excellence in every project.

## Education

### BS (Honors) in Computer Science
**University of the Punjab, Jhelum Campus**  
**Year:** 2023  
- **CGPA:** 3.73/4.0
- **Key Coursework:** 
  - **Computing & Software:** Data Structures & Algorithms, Analysis of Algorithms, Software Engineering, Object-Oriented Analysis & Design, Software Quality Assurance
  - **Systems & Architecture:** Operating Systems, Computer Architecture, System Programming
  - **Security & Networking:** Network Security, Computer Networks
  - **Mathematics & AI:** Artificial Intelligence, Probability & Statistics, Linear Algebra
  - **Database Systems:** Database Management Systems (DBMS) with Lab
  - **Theory:** Theory of Automata & Formal Languages, Compiler Construction
- **Final Year Project:**
  - **Title:** Costaz
  - **Description:** A Flutter application assisting teachers in managing student records, attendance, marks, and assignments, securely storing data in Google Drive via Google Sheets.
  - **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Google Sheets API, Google Drive API, Google Authentication API

### Intermediate in Pre-Engineering
*F.G. Intermediate College, Jhelum Cantt*  
- **Year:** 2019  
- **Marks:** 743/1100  
- **Percentage:** 67.5%

### Matriculation  
*F.G. Public School, Jhelum Cantt*  
- **Year:** 2017  
- **Marks:** 845/1050  
- **Percentage:** 80.5%

## Work Experience

### ACE Money Transfer
**Position:** .NET Developer  
**Duration:** June 2023 - Present  
- **Responsibilities:**
  - **System Architecture & Design:** Architected and engineered critical systems, including the "ACE Password Vault," featuring bespoke, world-class security. Provided expert consultancy on security, cryptography, and scalable PWA architecture.
  - **UI/UX Leadership:** Led the UI/UX design for the new Accounts and Treasury Management Suites after my designs for the Employee Monitoring Suite captured the attention of the CTO and PMs. Crafted unique, user-centric interfaces praised for their compactness, readability, and ease of use.
  - **Full-Stack Development:** Developed and designed significant components of the Accounts and Treasury Management Systems (AMS/TMS). Contributed to making a core web application scalable with a SaaS-first approach, earning praise for cleverly engineered solutions.
  - **Security & Integration:** Implemented advanced cryptography (RSA, AES, HMAC) and security measures in systems using C++ and .NET. Integrated and maintained secure payout partner APIs.
  - **System Modernization:** Modernized and optimized legacy systems using .NET 8, .NET 9, and AvaloniaUI, introducing GraphQL APIs to streamline development.
- **Achievements:**
  - Successfully architected and delivered the "ACE Password Vault," a vital and highly secure asset for the company.
  - My user-centric designs for critical management suites were highly praised by senior leadership and end-users, significantly improving user experience.
  - Received direct commendation from the CTO and PMs for innovative, scalable architectural solutions and high-quality design work.
  - Enhanced system security by implementing a two-layer encryption system for a major banking partner API.
  - Increased team productivity by 200% through the development of an Employee Monitoring Suite (details in Projects).
  - Modernized key internal tools, improving performance and maintainability.

### TeqHolic
**Position:** Intern  
**Duration:** 3 Months  
- **Responsibilities:**
  - Developed frontend applications using Flutter and Firebase
  - Built **Chirp**, a social media application similar to Twitter
  - Developed **Sara Kuch**, an e-commerce application using Shopify REST API

## Technical Skills

With a passion for computers since age 3, I've developed a comprehensive skill set across various domains of computer science:

| Category                   | Skills |
| -------------------------- | --- |
| Programming                | C++ (expert), C# (advanced), Dart (proficient), Python (intermediate) |
| System & Software Design   | System Architecture Design, Scalable & SaaS-first Architecture, Extensible Software Design |
| UI/UX Design               | Material 3, Fluent 2 Design System, Minimalist & User-Centric Design, Wireframing & Prototyping |
| C++ Expertise              | Modern C++ (till C++23/26), SFINAE, STL, Multithreading, File I/O, Smart Pointers, Lambdas |
| Cryptography and Security  | DES, AES, RSA, Key Generation (PBKDF2, Scrypt, Argon2), HMAC, EC Cryptography, OpenSSL API, `mr_crypt` library, Ethical Hacking, Penetration Testing, Mobile Security Assessments |
| Artificial Intelligence    | Machine Learning Algorithms, Neural Networks, AI-assisted Development, Prompt Engineering |
| Game Development           | Knowledge of Game Design Principles, Experience with Game Engines |
| Frameworks                 | .NET, AvaloniaUI, Blazor, Xamarin, Qt C++, Flutter, Firebase, Google APIs |
| Paradigms                  | - Data-Oriented Design <br> - Object-Oriented Programming <br> - Functional Programming (Monads) <br> - Template-Meta Programming |
| APIs                       | REST, SOAP, GraphQL |
| Database Management        | SQLite, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL |
| Tools & Platforms          | Visual Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, VS Code, Git & GitHub, Google Colab & Jupyter Notebook, Jira, Linux, Windows, macOS |
| AI & Problem-Solving       | Advanced Google Search Operators, AI-assisted development (harnessing GPTs, Claude, LLaMA, Command R+, GitHub Copilot, Microsoft Copilot, Mixtral AI, Google's Gemini), AI Prompt Engineering |

## Projects

### Employee Monitoring Suite
- **Role:** Lead Developer & UI/UX Designer
- **Technologies Used:** C# 13, .NET 9, AvaloniaUI, Blazor, GraphQL API, Micro-ORM, ApexCharts, Microsoft SQL Server
- **Description:** Architected and developed an Intune and DeskTime-like suite for monitoring employee activities. My design for the desktop client and dashboard was highly praised by the CTO and PMs, leading to broader design responsibilities across the company. The suite includes:
  - Real-time monitoring of active windows and applications
  - Screenshot capturing at regular intervals
  - Tracking of active/idle time
  - Detection and logging of all kinds of breaks
  - Integration with a GraphQL API for data retrieval
  - Real-time dashboard in Blazor for productivity analysis
  - Admin panels to manage client-app configurations and generate reports
- **Impact:** Improved overall team productivity by 200% and reduced unauthorized breaks by 35%. The project's success and design quality established my reputation as a key designer within the organization.

### ACE Password Vault
- **Role:** Lead Architect & Security Consultant
- **Technologies Used:** .NET, C++, Blazor (PWA), Modern Cryptography, Custom Security Protocols
- **Description:** Architected and engineered a vital company asset for secure password management from the ground up. Provided expert consultancy on all facets of the project, including its extensible architecture, PWA development, and advanced security.
- **Impact:** Delivered a world-class, highly secure password management solution with custom-built security mechanisms, now integral to the company's operational security.

### mr_crypt
- **Role:** Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** C++23, OpenSSL 3.0+ API  
- **Description:** A modern, easy-to-use C++ library for cryptography with range-like syntax, supporting various hashing algorithms, symmetric & asymmetric encryption, and key generation using OpenSSL's C API.
- **Impact:** Simplified cryptographic implementations for developers, reducing development time by ~10 times, and improving code readability while ensuring high security standards.

### Mobile Security Research and Publications
- **Role:** Cyber Security Researcher and Author  
- **Technologies Used:** Android OS, Security Analysis Tools, Custom Scripts  
- **Description:** Conducted extensive research on Android mobile security, focusing on ethical hacking techniques to identify and mitigate vulnerabilities. Developed innovative methods for mobile-to-mobile security assessments due to limited access to traditional computing resources. Successfully demonstrated security evaluations of Android devices in controlled environments.
- **Publications:** Authored several educational articles on **Null Byte** to share and preserve findings, contributing to the broader cyber security community (details in the Publications section).

### Costaz (Final Year Project)
- **Role:** Lead Developer & Designer
- **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Google Sheets API, Google Drive API, Google Authentication API  
- **Description:** A Flutter application designed to assist teachers in managing student records and assignments. The UI was carefully crafted with a minimalist, user-centric philosophy to avoid overwhelming users, a design choice praised by those who have used it. Data is stored securely on Google Drive.
- **Impact:** Streamlined the student record-keeping process, reducing manual data entry by 50% and improving data accuracy by 30%.

### Chirp
- **Role:** Frontend Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Firebase  
- **Description:** A simple social media application built to function similarly to X (Twitter), enabling real-time communication and content sharing.

### Sara Kuch
- **Role:** Frontend Developer  
- **Technologies Used:** Flutter, Firebase, REST API of Shopify  
- **Description:** An e-commerce application integrating Shopify's REST API for seamless product fetching and display.

## Research & Publications

### Identification of Paddy Disease Along Its Processing Time  
*Khan, S.N., Khan, S.U., Khan, M.A., Ansar, M.U., Shakeel, G.S., Ahmed, M., Zahid, N., & Ahmad, F.*  
*Quantum Journal of Social Sciences and Humanities*, 4(3), 72-80  
[Link to the Paper](https://doi.org/10.55197/qjssh.v4i3.251)  

- Developed an innovative image processing system for diagnosing paddy diseases.
- Achieved high accuracy rates using advanced image processing techniques.

### Paddy Leaf Disease Symptoms Detection Through Artificial Neural Network  
*Khan, S.N., Khan, S.U., Ahmed, S., Khan, M.A., Khan, J.*  
*Quantum Journal of Engineering, Science and Technology*, 4(4), 1-10  
[Link to the Paper](https://qjoest.com/index.php/qjoest/article/view/123/75)  

- Co-authored a research paper on the detection of paddy leaf disease symptoms using artificial neural networks.
- Contributed to the development of a system that enhances the accuracy of disease detection in agricultural applications.
- Participated in experiments that demonstrated improved performance in symptom detection using ANN with high accuracy.

### Cyber Security Articles on Null Byte
*Authored under the pseudonym [H4ck3R_777](https://creator.wonderhowto.com/h4ck3r_777/)*

- **Embed Metasploit Payload in Original APK Files:**
  - *Part 1:* Using TheFatRat
  - *Part 2:* Using Linder
- **Android Device Security Assessments with Termux on Android:**
  - *Part 1:* Over the Internet [Ultimate Guide]
  - *Part 2:* Over WLAN Hotspot [Ultimate Guide]
- **Installing Metasploit Framework on Android Devices:**
  - *Part 1:* In Termux
  - *Part 2:* In GNURoot-Debian
  - *Part 3:* In UserLAnd
- **Enhancing Password Cracking Efficiency:**
  - Use Multiple Threads/CPUs While Cracking Passwords with John the Ripper (Free Version)
- **File System Operations in Kali Linux:**
  - See How to Write to an NTFS Partition of HDD/SSD in Kali Linux (The Ultimate Guide)
- **APK File Signing Techniques:**
  - Sign the APK File with Embedded Payload (The Ultimate Guide)

**Highlights:**
- The article "*Android Device Security Assessments with Termux on Android: Part 1 - Over the Internet [Ultimate Guide]*" gained significant popularity from 2018 to 2020, becoming the second most-read article on Null Byte.
- Due to its widespread attention, the content was refined to focus on technical details aimed at professionals in the field, ensuring responsible dissemination of information.
- The articles were crafted to educate readers on mobile security, ethical hacking practices, and the importance of securing Android devices against potential vulnerabilities.

## Certifications & Training

- **Modern C++ Mastery with Respect to Game Development** by TheCherno (YouTube)
- **Advanced Cryptography Course** by Christof Paar (YouTube)
- **Flutter Development Course** by The App Brewery (Udemy)
- **.NET Basic to Advanced** by CodeWithMosh (Udemy) and Tim Corey (YouTube)
- **IELTS Academic** with British Council (details in Languages section)

## Extracurricular Activities & University Engagement

- **Founder and Leader of College Cyber Security Club:** Established and led a community of cyber security and ethical hacking enthusiasts for 3 years during college. Organized workshops, collaborative research projects, and knowledge-sharing sessions on cryptography, ethical hacking, and security best practices. The community fostered a culture of learning and innovation in the field of cyber security.

- **Class Representative & Student Mentor:** Acted as the unofficial Class Representative, fostering communication between students and faculty. Provided academic support to peers and conducted programming classes.

- **Open Source Contributions:** Actively contributing to my cryptography library, `mr_crypt`, on GitHub. Furthermore, contributed to various open-source projects like `AvaloniaUI`, `Flutter`, and `fluent_ui`, enhancing my skills and knowledge in software development.

- **AI Prompt Engineering:** Developed specialized prompts for GPT models, optimizing their performance for specific fields and improving output accuracy. Skilled in enhancing the capabilities of various AI models through advanced prompt engineering techniques.

## Languages

- **Urdu:** Native  
- **English:** 7.5 Bands in IELTS Academic

| IELTS Module | Bands |
| --- | --- |
| Listening | 8.5 |
| Reading | 7.0 |
| Writing | 7.0 |
| Speaking | 7.0 |
| **Overall** | **7.5** |

## Interests

I have a diverse range of interests that complement my professional skills and contribute to my personal growth and development.

| Interest                        | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Cyber Security & Ethical Hacking | Passionate about exploring security vulnerabilities, developing ethical hacking techniques, and securing systems against potential threats        |
| Artificial Intelligence         | Exploring the latest trends in AI and machine learning, including practical applications of AI-assisted development and prompt engineering         |
| Cryptography                    | Keen interest in developing secure and efficient cryptographic solutions                                                                           |
| Programming                     | Enthusiastic about exploring new programming paradigms and technologies                                                                            |
| Gaming                          | Avid gamer with a particular interest in game development and design                                                                               |
| Data Structures & Algorithms    | Enjoy solving complex problems and optimizing algorithms                                                                                           |
| Optimization                    | Passionate about optimizing code and algorithms for performance and efficiency                                                                     |
| Open Source                     | Active contributor to open-source projects, especially in C++ and cryptography                                                                     |
| Advanced Information Retrieval  | Proficient in using advanced search techniques to find and synthesize information from diverse sources                                             |
| AI-Assisted Problem Solving     | Skilled in leveraging various AI models and tools to tackle complex challenges efficiently                                                         |
| Symmetrical Lifestyle           | Believe in maintaining a healthy work-life balance to ensure productivity and well-being                                                           |

## References

Available upon request.

---

**Muhammad Ammar Khan**  
A dedicated and skilled computer science professional committed to excellence and innovation.
